docs/everloop.md, before:

# Everloop

The Everloop driver controls the LED array of the MATRIX Creator.
It follows the [MALOS protocol](../README.md#protocol).

### 0MQ Port
```
20021
```


### Keep-alives

This driver doesn't need keep-alive messages as it doesn't send data to the subscribed programs.

### Errors

This driver report errors when an invalid configuration is sent.

### Read

This driver doesn't send any data to a subscribed program.

### JavaScript example

This section provides an enhanced description of the relevant parts of the [sample source code](../src/js_test/test_everloop.js).
Some variables used below are defined in the example (for instance matrixMalosBuilder).

In order to set the LEDs of the Creator you need to perform the following steps.

#### Initialize configuration

    var config = new matrixMalosBuilder.DriverConfig

#### Create LED configuration object

    config.image = new matrixMalosBuilder.EverloopImage

#### Set LED states

The following steps needs to be repeated 35 times, once per LED.

The LEDs are counted starting from the left, clock-wise
as shown in the picture.

![Everloop LEDs](creator-front-everloop-leds.png)

##### Individual LED state

First, create the object.
 
    var ledValue = new matrixMalosBuilder.LedValue

Now fill out the state of a given led by calling the following functions on ledValue.
Each of the following functions receives an integer in the range [0, 255].

| Function      |   Objective   |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| setRed        | Set value of red component  |
| setGreen      | Set value of green component |
| SetBlue       | Set value of blue component |
| SeWhite       | Set value of white component |

That is:

    ledValue.setRed(red_value)
    ledValue.setGreen(green_value)
    ledValue.setBlue(blue_value)
    ledValue.setWhite(white_value)

##### Send configuration

    config.image.led.push(ledValue)

#### All steps combined

The following snippet will make all the greens display the green color.

    var config = new matrixMalosBuilder.DriverConfig
    config.image = new matrixMalosBuilder.EverloopImage
    for (var j = 0; j < 35; ++j) {
      var ledValue = new matrixMalosBuilder.LedValue
      ledValue.setRed(0)
      ledValue.setGreen(30)
      ledValue.setBlue(0)
      ledValue.setWhite(0)
      config.image.led.push(ledValue)
    }
    configSocket.send(config.encode().toBuffer())



### Glossary

#### Protocol buffers

In this section we get into the details of the [protocol buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3) used by the
JavaScript example to communicate with the Everloop driver.
The messages used by this driver are defined in [driver.proto](https://github.com/matrix-io/protocol-buffers/blob/master/malos/driver.proto).

```
message EverloopImage {
  repeated LedValue led = 1;
}
```

The message `EverloopImage` needs to have exactly 35 messages of type `LedValue` in the repeated field `led`,
corresponding to each of the LEDs present in the Creator.

The message LedValue holds the color values for each LED and each value is in the range [0, 255].

```
message LedValue {
  uint32 red = 1;
  uint32 green = 2;
  uint32 blue = 3;
  uint32 white = 4;
}
```

Commit message:

Fix mistake in "Send configuration" section.

docs/everloop.md, after:

# Everloop

The Everloop driver controls the LED array of the MATRIX Creator.
It follows the [MALOS protocol](../README.md#protocol).

### 0MQ Port
```
20021
```


### Keep-alives

This driver doesn't need keep-alive messages as it doesn't send data to the subscribed programs.

### Errors

This driver report errors when an invalid configuration is sent.

### Read

This driver doesn't send any data to a subscribed program.

### JavaScript example

This section provides an enhanced description of the relevant parts of the [sample source code](../src/js_test/test_everloop.js).
Some variables used below are defined in the example (for instance matrixMalosBuilder).

In order to set the LEDs of the Creator you need to perform the following steps.

#### Initialize configuration

    var config = new matrixMalosBuilder.DriverConfig

#### Create LED configuration object

    config.image = new matrixMalosBuilder.EverloopImage

#### Set LED states

The following steps needs to be repeated 35 times, once per LED.

The LEDs are counted starting from the left, clock-wise
as shown in the picture.

![Everloop LEDs](creator-front-everloop-leds.png)

##### Individual LED state

First, create the object.
 
    var ledValue = new matrixMalosBuilder.LedValue

Now fill out the state of a given led by calling the following functions on ledValue.
Each of the following functions receives an integer in the range [0, 255].

| Function      |   Objective   |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| setRed        | Set value of red component  |
| setGreen      | Set value of green component |
| SetBlue       | Set value of blue component |
| SeWhite       | Set value of white component |

That is, repeat 35 times:

    ledValue.setRed(red_value)
    ledValue.setGreen(green_value)
    ledValue.setBlue(blue_value)
    ledValue.setWhite(white_value)

    config.image.led.push(ledValue)

##### Send configuration

configSocket.send(config.encode().toBuffer())

#### All steps combined

The following snippet will make all the greens display the green color.

    var config = new matrixMalosBuilder.DriverConfig
    config.image = new matrixMalosBuilder.EverloopImage
    for (var j = 0; j < 35; ++j) {
      var ledValue = new matrixMalosBuilder.LedValue
      ledValue.setRed(0)
      ledValue.setGreen(30)
      ledValue.setBlue(0)
      ledValue.setWhite(0)
      config.image.led.push(ledValue)
    }
    configSocket.send(config.encode().toBuffer())



### Glossary

#### Protocol buffers

In this section we get into the details of the [protocol buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3) used by the
JavaScript example to communicate with the Everloop driver.
The messages used by this driver are defined in [driver.proto](https://github.com/matrix-io/protocol-buffers/blob/master/malos/driver.proto).

```
message EverloopImage {
  repeated LedValue led = 1;
}
```

The message `EverloopImage` needs to have exactly 35 messages of type `LedValue` in the repeated field `led`,
corresponding to each of the LEDs present in the Creator.

The message LedValue holds the color values for each LED and each value is in the range [0, 255].

```
message LedValue {
  uint32 red = 1;
  uint32 green = 2;
  uint32 blue = 3;
  uint32 white = 4;
}
```
